---
comments: true
created_at: 2006/11/10}
date: 2006-11-10T00:00:00Z
title: Teaching
url: /2006/11/10/teaching/
---

<p>
Every now and again I go off on a tangent about the problems of learning, and teaching, web design. Recently I got an interesting email from a chap at <a href="http://www.ncl-coll.ac.uk/">Newcastle College</a> and just a few weeks later I’ve now taken a couple of sessions with students studying web design.

</p>
<p>
I’m doing 4 hours a week, alongside the day job. 2 hours of theory and 2 hours of practice. Teaching everything from research techniques, wireframing and sitemaps to the first steps on the road to CSS and HTML mastery.

</p>
<p>
So far I’d like to think it’s going well (any students reading, please let me know if you think otherwise!) I thought a couple of observations would be handy at this stage, for those involved in doing the same, and for me looking back:

</p>
<ul>
<li>
For someone not trained as a teacher, it’s too easy to take what you know for granted and go too quickly.

</li>
<li>
It’s often hard to get across to new professionals how important the groundwork and theory is. With students this is doubly so.

</li>
<li>
More structured techniques are a good idea for newcomers.

</li>
<li>
The new <a href="http://htmldog.com">htmldog.com</a> site is an excellent reference. Thanks Patrick.

</li>
<li>
Enthusiasm is priceless. Seeing enthusiasm I think “maybe I’ll end up working with them one day”, without it all the technical skills in the world wont get me excited.

</li>
</ul>
<p>
Anyone else with a decent amount of experience and a little free time I’d recommend trying to do something similar. Our industry experience is a massively important part of the next generations educational needs and these are the people you’ll end up working with or managing in the future.

</p>
